source/module-06/reading.md, before:

---
title: Module 06 — Convolutional Neural Networks
---

![Eyeball]({{URLROOT}}/shared/img/eye.jpg)
*[Photo by Amanda Dalbjörn on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/UbJMy92p8wk)*

## Overview

The objective of this module is to provide a real-world scenario in which you can practice using Convolutional Neural Networks.

!!!time "Estimated Reading Time"
	Plan on around 120 - 240 minutes for this preparation reading, which consists of online reading and videos.

## Reading

This video from MIT does a great job of introducing all of the high level concepts of how convolutional neural networks work, and how they can be used to solve machine learning problems.

[!embed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaSUYvmCekI)

Please go through the following Keras tutorials:

* [Convolutional Neural Networks](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/images/cnn)
* [Image Classification](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/images/classification)

### Network Architecture

After you look at this tutorials, you might be wondering how to decide what network architecture is best? How do you decide how many convolutional layers to use? How do you pick a filter size? How do you determine how many filters and dense layers to use?

The most common approach is to experiment — adjust parameters one at a time and see how those adjustments affect your outcome. 

Another approach is to start with one of the many [well known CNN network architecture designs](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/convnet-architectures/) and adjust those as needed for your particular problem.

CNN architecture is a [very active](https://www.aismartz.com/blog/cnn-architectures/) field of development. As with most things in machine learning, there is no "one size fits all" answer.

Commit message:

Module 06 reading adjustments and discussion page

source/module-06/reading.md, after:

---
title: Module 06 — Convolutional Neural Networks
---

![Eyeball]({{URLROOT}}/shared/img/eye.jpg)
*[Photo by Amanda Dalbjörn on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/UbJMy92p8wk)*

## Overview

The objective of this module is to provide a real-world scenario in which you can practice using Convolutional Neural Networks.

!!!time "Estimated Reading Time"
	Plan on around 120 - 240 minutes for this preparation reading, which consists of online reading and videos.

## Preparation Reading

!!!note "Theory vs Practice"
	There is a lot of content to read this week. For the sake of the preparation quiz and Friday's discussion, you should go through everything in the *Theory* section below.

	The items in the *Practical* section are things you'll want to go through before you start in on the actual case study work on Monday.

### Theory

Please go through this content before the reading quiz and class discussion on Friday:

#### Convolutional Neural Networks

This video from MIT does a great job of introducing all of the high level concepts of how convolutional neural networks work, and how they can be used to solve machine learning problems.

[!embed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaSUYvmCekI)

#### Network Architecture

After you look at this tutorials, you might be wondering how to decide what network architecture is best? How do you decide how many convolutional layers to use? How do you pick a filter size? How do you determine how many filters and dense layers to use?

The most common approach is to experiment — adjust parameters one at a time and see how those adjustments affect your outcome. 

Another approach is to start with one of the many [well known CNN network architecture designs](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/convnet-architectures/) and adjust those as needed for your particular problem.

CNN architecture is a [very active](https://www.aismartz.com/blog/cnn-architectures/) field of development. As with most things in machine learning, there is no "one size fits all" answer.


### Practical

Please go through this content before class on Monday:

* Read [this collection of tutorials on the Keras library](./keras-cnn.html)
