source/module-02/hints.md, before:

---
title: Module 02 — More Hints
body-class: index-page
---

!!!warning "Don't Sell Yourself Short"

	Coding and Data Science is hard. Most of what I'm going to put here, you could look up on your own from official docs, tutorials, and Stack Overflow questions. 

	As we proceed throughout the semester, you'll get fewer hints and be expected to look more stuff up on your own.

	If you haven't tried independent research yet, you might want to try that for a few hours, then come back here.



## Using a Function to Transform a Feature

Sometimes you want to do a complex transformation where you create a new feature based on the data in one or more existing features, or where you need to use boolean logic in your transformation. 

One way to accomplish this is with `apply()` plus a function or lambda, as shown in the following colab notebook:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/module02_hint01.ipynb)


## MinMax Scaling a Feature
If we need to do some kind of distance-based algorithm with these features, it would help to transform them to the same scale first.

Min-max scaling will make the values span the range 0.0 - 1.0, as shown in the following colab notebook:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/module02_hint02.ipynb)


## Dealing with Dates
Sometimes we need to calculate the span between two dates using different units. Or, we might need to to do more complex calculations on a date using boolean logic. The following colab notebook shows some examples of that:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/module02_hint03.ipynb)


## Clustering and Visualizing Clustering
If you're struggling to use the elbow method to determine the right value for the "k" in k-means, or not clear on how the different ways to visualize clusters, this colab notebook should help:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/module02_hint04.ipynb)

Commit message:

Rewrite module 03 as module 02, update some readings, etc...

source/module-02/hints.md, after:

---
title: Module 02 — More Hints
body-class: index-page
---

!!!warning "Don't Sell Yourself Short"

	Coding and Data Science is hard. Most of what I'm going to put here, you could look up on your own from official docs, tutorials, and Stack Overflow questions. 

	As we proceed throughout the semester, you'll get fewer hints and be expected to look more stuff up on your own.

	If you haven't tried independent research yet, you might want to try that for a few hours, then come back here.


## Using a Function to Transform a Feature

Sometimes you want to do a complex transformation where you create a new feature based on the data in one or more existing features, or where you need to use boolean logic in your transformation. 

One way to accomplish this is with `apply()` plus a function or lambda, as shown in the following colab notebook:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/hint_functions.ipynb)


## MinMax Scaling a Feature
If we need to do some kind of distance-based algorithm with these features, it would help to transform them to the same scale first.

Min-max scaling will make the values span the range 0.0 - 1.0, as shown in the following colab notebook:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/hint_scaling.ipynb)


## Dealing with Dates
Sometimes we need to calculate the span between two dates using different units. Or, we might need to to do more complex calculations on a date using boolean logic. The following colab notebook shows some examples of that:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/hint_dates.ipynb)


## Use a decision tree

If you're really struggling with how to make a decision tree, you should try reading through the documentation a couple more times.

If that still doesn't help, this notebook can give you some more guidance:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/hint_decisiontrees.ipynb)

## Imbalanced datasets

Often in classification problems, you'll build a model that seems to do fantastically well when testing. Sometimes it'll seem like no matter what you do with the model, you get high levels of accuracy.

When this happens, it is often because of an imbalanced dataset — one where you have many more instances of one target value than another.

For example, if 80% of my samples report `true` for the target, I could achieve close to an 80% accuracy rate on my test data just by using this code:

```python
def true_or_false_for_this_sample(sample):
	return True
```

There are [several ways to address this problem](https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/28029/training-a-decision-tree-against-unbalanced-data), but two of the most common are oversampling and undersampling.

This Colab notebook shows an example:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/hint_imbalanced.ipynb)
