source/module-02/intro.md, before:

---
title: Module 02 — Targeted Marketing, Case Study Introduction
---

![Meeting]({{URLROOT}}/shared/img/portugal.jpg)
*[Photo by Ricardo Resende on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/swivynstICo)*

## Introduction
You've just been hired as a junior data scientist for Banco Federal de Finanças in Aveiro, Portugal. They just finished a major telemarketing campaign and management was not happy with the results. 

They feel like machine learning could help them create a more targeted campaign. You and your team have been brought in to discuss the situation. 

## Stakeholders

These are the individuals your team will be helping during the case study:

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/ferreira.jpg">
	<h5>Senhor Ferreira, Chairman of the Board</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Olá, I'm Senhor Ferreira.</p><p>You can call me...Senhor Ferreira.</p><p>I believe in old fashioned banking practices — reaching out to customers with a personal touch.</p><p>My son, Senhor Ferreira II, thinks we might be able to do better with computers. He is a smart boy, but I don't know...</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/miguel.jpg">
	<h5>Miguel Ferreira, Bank President</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Obrigado, Senhor Ferreira.</p>
	<p>I'm Miguel, president of the bank. Like my father said, reaching out to customers with a personal touch is important. But, I believe we can learn a lot from what AI has to offer, so I'm excited to have you on the team.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/francisco.jpg">
	<h5>Francisco, VP of Marketing</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Olá, I'm Francisco. It's a pleasure to meet you.</p>
		<p>We're planning some major growth initiatives over the next quarter, and I'm excited to see how AI can help.</p><p>We've put together an entire team for this, and we're excited for you to be a part of it.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/beatriz.jpg">
	<h5>Beatriz, Senior Data Scientist</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Bem vindo ao time.</p>
		<p>I'm the head of the new data science division. I'll try to answer any questions you might have about the bank or data science in general.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/johnny.jpg">
	<h5>Johnny, the data science intern</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Welcome! I'm so glad you're here, now I'm officially not the newest person on the team! What's your favorite Python library?</p>
		<p>I <em>really</em> like data science.</blockquote>
</div>

!!!note "Stakeholder Focus Areas"
	The shareholders are particularly interested in the following areas:

	1.	Finding interesting customer segments based on their previous marketing campaign.
	2.  Finding a way to identify the types of customers most likely to respond favorably to future marketing campaigns.
	3.  Proving to a skeptical Senhor Ferreira that a targeted campaign based on data science will significantly outperform a campaign made up of randomly selected customers.

You've been invited to dinner tomorrow night with the President of the bank, VP of Marketing, and the Senior Data Scientist. They're planning to discuss the marketing campaign and would like your input on a few key points.

## Dataset
Spend some time with your team evaluating [the data](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/byui-cse/cse450-course/master/data/bank.csv). Be sure to look at data types, ranges, and meanings of each feature from the [data dictionary](./bank-dictionary.txt).

You can use the following Google Colab notebook to assist you:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/starter_bank.ipynb)

[^1]: [Chairman of the Board photo by Portuguese Gravity on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/oMF2q4tlhDg)

[^2]: [President photo by Roland Samuel on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/MZ5A24H1JqU)

[^3]: [VP of Marketing photo by Mehrad Vosoughi on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/iUQmEFtfdLw)

[^4]: [Head of Data Science photo by Mateus Campos Felipe ](https://unsplash.com/photos/WnPJft0DJpk)

[^5]: [Data Science Intern photo by Fábio Lucas on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/iczrMDNuvzkml-pxK0Ovmw)

Commit message:

Added steps to machine learning

source/module-02/intro.md, after:

---
title: Module 02 — Targeted Marketing, Case Study Introduction
---

![Meeting]({{URLROOT}}/shared/img/portugal.jpg)
*[Photo by Ricardo Resende on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/swivynstICo)*

## Introduction
You've just been hired as a junior data scientist for Banco Federal de Finanças in Aveiro, Portugal. They just finished a major telemarketing campaign and management was not happy with the results. 

They feel like machine learning could help them create a more targeted campaign. You and your team have been brought in to discuss the situation. 

## Stakeholders

These are the individuals your team will be helping during the case study:

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/ferreira.jpg">
	<h5>Senhor Ferreira, Chairman of the Board</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Olá, I'm Senhor Ferreira.</p><p>You can call me...Senhor Ferreira.</p><p>I believe in old fashioned banking practices — reaching out to customers with a personal touch.</p><p>My son, Senhor Ferreira II, thinks we might be able to do better with computers. He is a smart boy, but I don't know...</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/miguel.jpg">
	<h5>Miguel Ferreira, Bank President</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Obrigado, Senhor Ferreira.</p>
	<p>I'm Miguel, president of the bank. Like my father said, reaching out to customers with a personal touch is important. But, I believe we can learn a lot from what AI has to offer, so I'm excited to have you on the team.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/francisco.jpg">
	<h5>Francisco, VP of Marketing</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Olá, I'm Francisco. It's a pleasure to meet you.</p>
		<p>We're planning some major growth initiatives over the next quarter, and I'm excited to see how AI can help.</p><p>We've put together an entire team for this, and we're excited for you to be a part of it.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/beatriz.jpg">
	<h5>Beatriz, Senior Data Scientist</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Bem vindo ao time.</p>
		<p>I'm the head of the new data science division. I'll try to answer any questions you might have about the bank or data science in general.</p></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="dialogue">
	<img src="{{URLROOT}}/shared/img/johnny.jpg">
	<h5>Johnny, the data science intern</h5>
	<blockquote><p>Welcome! I'm so glad you're here, now I'm officially not the newest person on the team! What's your favorite Python library?</p>
		<p>I <em>really</em> like data science.</blockquote>
</div>

!!!note "Stakeholder Focus Areas"
	The shareholders are particularly interested in the following areas:

	1.	Finding interesting customer segments based on their previous marketing campaign.
	2.  Finding a way to identify the types of customers most likely to respond favorably to future marketing campaigns.
	3.  Proving to a skeptical Senhor Ferreira that a targeted campaign based on data science will significantly outperform a campaign made up of randomly selected customers.

You've been invited to dinner tomorrow night with the President of the bank, VP of Marketing, and the Senior Data Scientist. They're planning to discuss the marketing campaign and would like your input on a few key points.

## Dataset

Spend some time with your team evaluating [the data](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/byui-cse/cse450-course/master/data/bank.csv). Be sure to look at data types, ranges, and meanings of each feature from the [data dictionary](./bank-dictionary.txt).

You can use the following Google Colab notebook to assist you:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/byui-cse/cse450-course/blob/master/notebooks/starter_bank.ipynb)

!!!note Wondering Where to Start?
Here is an [article](https://towardsdatascience.com/9-steps-for-solving-data-science-problems-dc3c238cb58c) on some basic steps to approach any machine learning/data science problem

[^1]: [Chairman of the Board photo by Portuguese Gravity on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/oMF2q4tlhDg)

[^2]: [President photo by Roland Samuel on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/MZ5A24H1JqU)

[^3]: [VP of Marketing photo by Mehrad Vosoughi on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/iUQmEFtfdLw)

[^4]: [Head of Data Science photo by Mateus Campos Felipe ](https://unsplash.com/photos/WnPJft0DJpk)

[^5]: [Data Science Intern photo by Fábio Lucas on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/iczrMDNuvzkml-pxK0Ovmw)
